# Self Service TSA screening

## Date: 02/07/2024

The Science and Technology Directorate (S&T) of the Department of Homeland Security has announced that they are working on a new self-service screening system for TSA. The system is designed to reduce the time it takes to get through security, and to reduce the amount of contact between passengers and TSA agents. 

### Topics

Security. Technology.

### Key Concepts

- Who is it for: If succesful, this method of self screening will intially only be open to TSA precheck passengers. A TSA precheck passenger is someone who has been pre-screened by the TSA, and has been deemed a low risk passenger.
- How does it work?: in late 2021, S&T awarded four contracts to three companies: Micro-X of Federal Way, Washington; Vanderlande Industries Inc. of Marietta, Georgia; and Voxel Radar of San Francisco. The companies are working with Screening at Speed and TSA to develop self-screening concepts, prototypes, and hardware that enable new screening paradigms while meeting TSA’s rigorous security standards. Currently, Micro-X is developing a pod-based design for customers to use individual screening consoles. These consoles will be able to screen carry ons, and provide live feedback to the passenger. This would allow passangers to operate at their own pace, reduce the amount of contact between passengers and TSA agents, and reduce the time it takes to get through security.
- Current Progress: Micro-X has already begun building the first self service screening pod, which is schedule to be tested in 2025. This past January, PreCheck® travelers were able to get their first chance to use the Vanderlande self-service screening prototype at Harry Reid International Airport in Las Vegas, Nevada. TSOs from the airport were already  trained at the TSIF on how to operate the system and help travelers navigate the self-service screening process. Finally, S&T and TSA have provided the public with a VR experience of the self-service screening process, which was done at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas. The link is posted below.

### Resources/Practice

- Link to VR experience of self screening: https://www.cnet.com/videos/first-look-at-tsas-self-screening-tech-in-vr/
- DHS.gov article on self screening: https://www.dhs.gov/science-and-technology/news/2023/11/30/feature-article-self-service-screening-option-coming-airport

### Personal Thoughts

On the surface, I think this is a great idea. I travel at least once a year every summer to go to Guadeloupe, a small carribean island where my mother was born. During the summer months, there is no direct flight to get there, so usually we travel to Canada, then Guadeloupe, or St Marteen first then Guadeloupe. I travel with a lot of my electronics, including my computer, ipad, phone, headphones, Nintedo switch, camera, etc. Although I have PreCheck already, I always dread the TSA checkpoints becuase I feel rushed to empty my bag as quickly as possible, which has led me to forget to remove certain items, and cuase the line to get backed up. Since my family and I always arrive hours before boarding the plan, having the self service pods would greatly help me feel less rushed. Based on the articles, the self pods are designed to have automated feedback and doors, so if I forget to remove something, the pod will let me know, and I can remove it without holding up the line. My only concern is how this will work with small children, who may not be able to operate the pods on their own. What will the age limit be for the pods? Can a mother and her 10 year old son use the same pod? I am excited to see how this will work in the future.