# The Flipper Zero

## Date: 02/09/2024

A hacking multi-tool shaped like a playful child’s toy and adorned with a friendly dolphin. Packed with a range of sensors, chips, and antennas, the Flipper lets you make playful mischief with all sorts of devices, from security gates to card readers.

### Topics

Hacking. Security. Technology.

### Key Concepts

- What is it? : The flipper zero is a multi tool hacking device in the form factor of a kids toy. It is a small orange and white plastic device with a playful dolphin on it's 1.4 inch screen. SImilar to a swiss army knife, it is capable to communicate with a wide range of devices, including RFID, old garage doors, NFC, and Bluetooth. It is open source, and was successfuly funded on kickstarter to the tune of roughly $4.6 million. Just about every wireless device is vulnerable in some way or another. There are even viral videos of people using the flipper zero to mess with Tesla drivers by opening their charhing ports.
- What can it do? : For starters, the sub-1GHz transceiver allows it to interact with old fashiopned devices like garage doors, resturant pages, gas station price signs, and doorbells. The 125kHz antenna lets you read, clone, and emmulate older prox cards (a key card or keycard is a contactless smart card which can be read without inserting it into a reader device, as required by earlier magnetic stripe cards such as credit cards and contact type smart cards.) The infrared transceiver lets it learn any IR device on the fly. For example, if you lsoe a remote, the flipper can learn to emulate it. The flipper also allows you to run BadUSB attacks, which is a type of attack that uses a USB device to attack a computer. There is also an app to connect to the flipper, and it is open source, so you can modify it to your liking. It also comes with a microSD card slot, so you can store all your tools and scripts on it. There is no built in Wi-Fi, but using the GPIO pines (General Purpose Input/Output) you can connect a Wi-Fi module to it. From a less malicious standpoint, the flipper can be used to play games like tetris and flappy bird.
- Is it a threat? : In the wrong hands, yes. Although the flipper zero is not a device created to cause chaso, it can be used to do so. However, it is no different than any other hacking device. It is a tool, and it is up to the user to decide how to use it, similarly to a raspberry pi.

### Resources/Practice

- The Verge's article: https://www.theverge.com/23433594/flipper-zero-hacking-gadget-wireless-pentesting-open-source-antenna


### Personal Thoughts
Overall, the flipper zero sounds a very cool tool. I would love the opportunity to have get one and try it on my own devices at home, especially if it can be used to learn and emmulate the uses of lost remotes, or controlling other small home tech. I may not get a chance to do so, however, because companies like PayPal, and US customs, have put a hold on the shipping and order placement of the flipper zero. I undertsnad why this was done, becuase as unfortunate as it is, there are people who would turn tools like the flipper zero into weapons. With such a large amount of resources online, and the fact that it is open source, I think it's ok if the Flipper Zero is not available to the public. It's a cool tool, but it's not a tool that everyone should have access to.