# Apple Vision Pro in the World of Medicine

## Date: 02/08/2024

Today's entry is about the Apple Vision Pro, Apple's first VR headset which was released on February 2nd, 2024. Although it has released with an insane retail price of $3499, there is optimism that it can be utilized in the world of medicine. One hospital is already taking strides to implement the Vision Pro in their hospital. 

### Topics

Applee. Technology. Medicine.

### Key Concepts

- What is the Apple Vision Pro?: Unlike other popular VR headsets, such as the Oculus Quest, the Apple Vision Pro is being advertised as an introduction to "Spacial Computing". Throughout all of Apple's advertisement, the headset was rarely, if ever, referred to as a traditional VR headset. The Vision Pro is desinged to be used in a variety of settings, including gaming, education, and in this case, medicine.
- Who is taking strides to implement the Vision Pro in the medicine field: A new report from The San Diego Union-Tribune gave an inside look how Sharp healthcare, a San Diego hospital, has taken delivery of 30 Apple Vision Pro headsets. The hospital is currently “giving them to health care workers doing all sorts of jobs.”
- How can the Vision Pros work in medicine?: Currently, the hospital has given the Vision Pros to physcians, nurses, and software developers. The goal is for them to work with the hospital to figure out which tasks and worksflows it's best for. One potential use case is for the Vision Pro to be used with anesthesiologists. The headset could be used to display a patient's vital signs, and other important information, in real time, while the anesthesiologist is performing a procedure. This would allow the anesthesiologist to have all the information they need, without having to look away from the patient.

### Resources/Practice

- 9t05mac.com - primary source: https://9to5mac.com/2024/02/06/vision-pro-hospital-spatial-computing/?extended-comments=1
- Original newspaper source: https://www.sandiegouniontribune.com/news/health/story/2024-02-05/is-apples-new-vision-pro-a-health-care-machine-sharp-healthcare-thinks-so

### Personal Thoughts

Apple has recieved a lot of backlash for releasing the Vision Pro at such a steep price, and although I might sound like an Apple fanboy, I honestly thing this might;ve been intentional. This initial release is not for your average consumer, but for developers, like those that work in hospitals, or streaming services. The Vision Pro is lacking in 3rd party apps, like a built in youtube or netflix app. I honestly believe that Apple is allowing developers in differnet fields to get their hands on the Vision pro, and create apps that are specific to their field. This hospital is a great example o that. And who knows, this version of the Vision Pro might never be for the average consumer, and I think that's okay. As mentioned earlier, the Vision Pro is being advertised as an introduction to "Spacial Computing", and I think that's what Apple is trying to do. They are trying to introduce a new way of computing, and they are starting with the people who can make the most out of it. 